#summary How to get started with Molniya.

= Requirements =

 * A Unix/Linux system running Nagios 3.
 * An XMPP server and user account; Google Talk works.
 * An SMTP server to relay outgoing mail.
 * Ruby 1.8 with the following gems:
  * metaid
  * xmpp4r
  * sinatra
  * rack
  * mongrel

= Molniya setup =

  # Install the required gems listed above.
  # Copy the sample configuration in [http://molniya.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/example.yaml example.yaml] and fill in appropriate values for the various settings. See the comments in example.yaml for guidance.
  # Configure your Nagios IM contacts with their IM addresses (XMPP JIDs) in the selected xmpp_field; I use `address1`.
  # Launch the server: 
{{{
   $ ./molniya config.yaml
}}}
  # Connect to your XMPP server as the Molniya account and add your own IM account as a contact.

It should now be working; check by sending it the message 'status'. It should reply with a status report of current faults, or the message "All clear." If so, you're all set.

= Nagios notification setup =

The included `notify` utility is used as a Nagios notification command to send messages through Molniya via XMPP or SMTP. The file [http://molniya.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/notify.cfg notify.cfg] contains the appropriate command definitions; edit the path as appropriate for your installation.

To actually use this notification method, configure Nagios contacts to use the `molniya-notify` and `molniya-host-notify` commands as
`service_notification_commands` and `host_notification_commands`. See the
comments in notify.cfg for an example and discussion.